is the way to let people know whether or
not they're in ketosis so some people
say oh yeah I I eat a ketogenic diet I
said what's your gki well I never
measured well how do you know you're in
K Dr Thomas NC freed PhD a top
researcher who studies how changing the
way people eat can help manage diseases
like cancer and at pepsy his work shows
that changing metabolism can kill cancer
cells and improve the health of normal
cells Dr cine examines the chemical and
genetic reasons behind these changes
focusing on inflammation cell Health
blood vessel growth and fat biochemistry
he has written over 150 research papers
and the book cancer as a metabolic
disease on the origin management and
prevention of cancer Dr cine has won
many awards including the alumni
Achievement Award from the University of
New England and the Lifetime Achievement
Award from The Academy of comprehensive
and complimentary medicine disclaimer
please with a healthcare professional
before making any health rated decisions
or changes to your diet and
lifestyle cancer is an intricate disease
characterized by Relentless cell growth
and voracious energy demands it poses a
profound challenge in the realm of
medical research Dr cine has studied how
cancer cells use energy
differently uh allows a lot of when we
built it for the cancer folks uh so that
they can know how to kill their tumor
cells uh and also deliver drugs when the
when the P cancer patient is in ketosis
the drug delivery can kill the tumor
cells much more effectively in cancer
cells change how they make energy
instead of using the usual process
called respiration they prefer a
different way called fermentation even
when there isn't much oxygen this switch
to fermentation is a key trait of cancer
cells as they rely heavily on sugars
like glucose and glutamine for energy Dr
C Freed's research shows how cancer
cells work together to use fermentation
in both the cell's main part and the
energy Powerhouse mitochondria they have
special systems that help them use
sugars for energy this highlights how
cancer cells have unique ways of getting
the energy they need to keep growing and
spreading Dr sea Freed's research
suggests that changing what we eat could
potentially impact how cancer cells grow
in spread one approach he explores is
called a ketogenic diet this diet
involves eating foods that are high in
fats moderate in proteins and very low
in carbohydrates by doing this the body
enters a state called ketosis where it
burns fat for fuel instead of
carbohydrates cancer cells typically
rely heavily on glucose and glutamine
which are types of sugars to fuel their
rapid growth however when someone
follows a ketogenic diet the levels of
glucose and glutamine in the body
decrease because they are not consuming
as many carbohydrates this reduction in
available sugars can starve cancer cells
making it harder for them to grow and
divide additionally doct C fre suggests
so can you starve the tumor cell of
their fermentable fuels and kill them
and the answer is absolutely it's an
elegant beautiful system and when it's
done right it you can't believe how well
it works that combining a ketogenic diet
with medications that Target the
metabolism of glucose and glutamine in
cancer cells could potentially stop stop
the energy production that fuels tumor
growth this combined approach aims to
disrupt the unique way cancer cells
generate energy potentially slowing down
or even killing cancer cells a ketogenic
diet focuses on high fat moderate
protein and very low carbohydrate intake
studies show that the ketogenic diet can
help manage cancer by changing the
body's metabolism here's how it works
cancer cells need a lot of glucose sugar
to grow a ketogenic diet reduces the
amount of glucose in the body because it
limits carbohydrates which are the main
source of glucose when the body doesn't
have enough glucose it starts to use fat
for energy this process produces ketones
which healthy cells can use for fuel but
cancer cells cannot one study showed
that when mice with brain tumors were
put on a calorie restricted ketogenic
diet the growth of the tumors slowed
down the ketogenic diet targets get
cancer cells in a few ways it reduces
inflammation starves cancer cells
decreases growth factors and improves
the health of normal cells cancer cells
thrive in inflamed environments and the
ketogenic diet lowers inflammation by
reducing the activity of nfkb a protein
that controls inflammation this was seen
in Mouse models where lower nfkb
activity meant less inflammation and
slower tumor growth without glucose
cancer cells struggle to survive the
ketogenic diet deprives them of their
primary fuel source at the same time
normal cells switch to using ketones for
energy which cancer cells cannot
effectively use the diet also reduces
the levels of insulin and other growth
factors that cancer cells need slowing
down the rate at which cancer cells can
multiply while cancer cells are starved
normal cells become healthier they use
ketones for energy which can protect
them from damage and improve overall
Health Dr seed explains that combining
the ketogenic diet with other treatments
can be even more effective for example
Studies have shown that using the
ketogenic diet along with a drug called
2D oxy glucose 2dg can greatly reduce
tumor growth 2dg works by entering
cancer cells and blocking their ability
to use glucose which leads to energy
loss and cell death when used together
the ketogenic diet and 2dg hit hit
cancer cells from two sides they starve
the cancer cells of glucose and disrupt
their energy production in experiments
with mice the combination of a
restricted ketogenic diet and 2dg showed
a greater reduction in tumor growth than
either treatment alone this combination
also helped the mice live longer
implementing a ketogenic diet KD to
fight cancer requires careful planning
and strict adherence to dietary
guidelines the typical macronutrient
ratio IO for a ketogenic diet involves
70 to 75% fat 20 to 25% protein and 5 to
10% carbohydrates to achieve this daily
carbohydrate intake should be limited to
about 20 to 50 gram foods that are high
in healthy fats such as avocados olive
oil coconut oil butter and fatty fish
should be included protein sources
should be moderate and can include eggs
poultry beef and low carb dairy products
carbohydrates should come from
non-starchy vegetables like leafy greens
broccoli and
cauliflower monitoring and maintain
ketosis is essential this can be done by
regularly checking Ketone levels using
urine strips blood meters or breath
meters additionally blood glucose levels
should be monitored to ensure they
remain low as high glucose can fuel
cancer growth achieving and maintaining
ketosis helps in reducing the
availability of glucose which is crucial
for starving cancer cells combining the
ketogenic diet with other treatments can
enhance its
Effectiveness a study conducted in
nutrients found that a clinical trial
involving human subjects with brain
tumors investigated the impact of a
ketogenic diet on tumor
metabolism participants were prescribed
the ketogenic diet and monitored for
changes in tumor metabolism over a
specified period the study included a
specific number of participants with
brain tumors who adhere to the ketogenic
diet intervention the findings revealed
significant changes in tumor metabolism
in response to the ketogenic diet
potentially enhancing the effectiveness
of standard therapy for brain tumors
these metabolic alterations suggested
that the ketogenic diet could complement
traditional treatment approaches for
brain tumors indicating a promising role
for this dietary intervention in
improving therapeutic outcomes for
patients with brain tumors
um ketogenic diets have been around
since the
1920s uh basically maybe even earlier
than that but at least you know Wilder
at at Mayo Clinic was the the one we
recognize as kind of adapting this whole
thing was mostly done for epilepsy Dr C
freed states that strict compliance with
the ketogenic diet is crucial for its
success non-compliance can lead to
subtle increases in two more progression
which may not be immediately obvious
maintaining dietary compliance can be
challenging in a home environment due to
distractions and lack of support
therefore it is often recommended that
the diet be initiated and managed under
the supervision of healthc Care
Professionals in a specialized clinic
this ensures proper education support
and monitoring which can significantly
enhance adherence and outcomes potential
side effects such as fatigue headaches
and nausea commonly known as the keto
flu can occur during the initial
transition period these can be managed
by ensuring adequate hydration
electrolyte balance and gradual dietary
adjustments patients with cancer may
have specific dietary needs and
restrictions based on their overall
health type of cancer and treatment plan
it is important to work closely with
healthc Care Professionals to tailor the
ketogenic diet to individual needs and
ensure it complements other treatments
like surgery radiation or chemotherapy
adopting a ketogenic diet involves
planning meals around high fat moderate
protein and low carbohydrate Foods this
diet can help prevent cancer by reducing
inflammation and promoting metabolic
flexibility below are some delicious and
easy to make ketogenic recipes for
various meals of the day ensuring you
can enjoy tasty dishes while staying
within the dietary guidelines breakfast
keto avocado egg bake description a
delicious breakfast option that combines
avocado eggs cheese and Seasonings paked
to
Perfection recipe ingredients one
avocado two eggs shredded cheese salt
pepper directions cut the avocado in
half and remove the pit scoop out a bit
of the flesh to make room for the egg
crack an egg into each half sprinkle
with cheese salt and pepper bake at
375° fahit for 15 to 20 minutes until
the egg is set lunch keto cauliflower
mac and
cheese description a low carb version of
the classic mac and cheese using
cauliflower as a substitute for pasta
recipe ingredients one head of
cauliflower 1 cup heavy cream 2 cups
cheddar cheese 1/2 cup Cream Cheese 1
teaspoon mustard salt pepper directions
steam cauliflower florids until tender
in in a saucepan heat heavy cream and
add cheddar cheese and cream cheese
until melted stir in mustard salt and
pepper mix with cauliflower and bake at
375° fah for 20
minutes dinner Keto Chicken
Alfredo description creamy and Rich
chicken alfredo made with zucchini
noodles instead of traditional pasta
recipe ingredients two chicken breasts
one cup heavy cream one cup parmesan
cheese two cloves garlic three zapas
spiralized directions cook chicken
breasts in a skillet until golden in the
same skillet add garlic and heavy cream
bring to a simmer add parmesan cheese
and stir until creamy serve over sawed
zakin noodles side dish keto bacon
wrapped
asparagus description a simple yet
flavorful appetizer or side dish
featuring asparagus Spears wrapped in
crispy bacon recipe ingredients one
Bunch asparagus 12 slices bacon olive
oil salt pepper directions wrap each
asparagus spear with a slice of bacon
place on a baking sheet drizzle with
olive oil and sprinkle with salt and
pepper bake at 400° fahit for 20 minutes
until bacon is crispy snacks keto fat
bombs description these small high fat
snacks are perfect for boosting your fat
intake on a ketogenic diet they come in
various flavors like chocolate coconut
or peanut butter recipe ingredients 1/2
cup coconut oil 1/4 cup cocoa powder 1/4
cup peanut butter sweetener optional
directions melt coconut oil and mix with
cocoa powder and peanut butter pour into
molds and refrigerate until solid
appetiz
kenot taco stuffed bell
peppers description bell peppers filled
with seasoned ground beef or turkey
topped with cheese and baked until
tender recipe ingredients four bell
peppers 1B ground beef or turkey one
packet taco seasoning one cup shredded
cheese directions have and Seed the bell
peppers cook ground beef or turkey with
taco seasoning fill peppers with meat
mixture top with cheese and bake at
375° fahit for 20 minutes Seafood dish
keto lemon garlic butter shrimp
description succulent shrimp cooked in a
lemon garlic butter sauce served with
zoodles zuc noodles or cauliflower rice
recipe ingredients one lb shrimp 4
tablespoons butter three cloves garlic
juice of one lemon two zenas spiralized
directions SAA shrimp and butter with
minced garlic until pink add lemon juice
and toss serve over zucchini noodles or
cauliflower rice
dessert keto
cheesecake description a creamy and
indulgent dessert made with an almond
flour crust and a rich cream cheese
filling sweetened with a keto friendly
sweetener
recipe ingredients 1 cup almond flour 3
tbspoon butter melted 16 oz cream cheese
2 eggs 1/2 cup keto friendly
sweetener directions mix almond flour
and melted butter press into a baking
dish to form the crust beet cream cheese
eggs and sweetener until smooth pour
over crust and bake at
325° fahit for 45 to 50
minutes party dish keto buffalo chicken
dip description a spicy and cheesy dip
made with shredded chicken cream cheese
hot sauce and melted cheese perfect for
parties or game nights
recipe ingredients 2 cups shredded
chicken 8 oz cream cheese 1/2 cup hot
sauce 1 cup shredded cheddar
cheese directions mix shredded chicken
with softened cream cheese and hot sauce
spread in a baking dish top with cheddar
cheese and bake at
350° fahr for 20 minutes
breakfast treat keto coconut flour
pancakes description fluffy pancakes
made with coconut flour and served with
sugar-free syrup and berries
recipe ingredients 1/4 cup coconut flour
four eggs 1/4 cup almond milk 1/ 2
teaspoon baking powder sweetener
directions mix all ingredients until
smooth cook pancakes on a griddle until
golden brown serve with sugar free syrup
and berries these recipes will help you
stay on track with your ketogenic diet
while enjoying a variety of delicious
meals by integrating these tasty options
into your meal plan you can maintain a
diet that supports cancer prevention and
promotes overall health Dr cine also
states that fasting is another powerful
method to prevent cancer unlike
starvation which is harmful therapeutic
fasting maintains metabolic
homeostasis during fasting the body
switches to using ketones for energy
sparing protein and protecting the brain
vitamins and minerals stored in the body
are slowly released supporting overall
health during fasting Studies have shown
that people can fast for extended
periods without adverse effects this
process known as autophagy breaks down
and recycles inefficient cells
potentially targeting preiner cells
combining the ketogenic diet with
fasting can enhance its effectiveness
for instance a 7-Day water only fast
once a year can help the body get rid of
precancerous tissue it typically takes 2
to 3 days for blood glucose to reach
therapeutic levels of 55 to 65 m/d and
ketones to reach 3 to 5 mole once in
this metabolic State cell death and
autolytic cannibalism begin purging the
body of cancerous tissue for those
unable to conduct longer fasts several
shorter fasts 2 to 3 days 2 to three
times a year can also be
effective Dr Thomas and SE fr's
Innovative approach to cancer treatment
through metabolic therapy offers a
Beacon of Hope in the fight against this
Relentless disease his research suggests
that by Shifting the body's energy
production from glucose to ketones
through a ketogenic diet we can exploit
cancer cells metabolic
vulnerabilities this strategy especially
when combined with other treatments has
the potential to significantly impede
cancer growth and improve patient
outcomes embracing such dietary changes
requires dedication and professional
guidance but it opens up a promising
less invasive pathway for managing and
potentially overcoming cancer always
seek advice from Healthcare
professionals to tailor these strategies
to your individual needs and treatment
plans